#summary MiG gatherings
#labels Phase-QA,Phase-Requirements,Phase-Design,Phase-Support

= MiG Days =
From time to time we gather interested users, resource owners and developers to collaborate for a few days on the projects at hand in the MiG project.
We tend to do this at least once a year, but when the chance arises we may take a single joint working day, too.


= Next MiG working day =
On a previous MiG Working Day, we discussed the future collaboration possibilities and there was some backing for introducing more frequent working days to make sure that we synchronize our efforts and get finished subprojects integrated in the main MiG code base.

However, there is no requirement whatsoever that you participate at all even if you are a core member of the MiG team, and the participation can be limited or full time as you see fit.

We are planning the next MiG Day to take place on the 11th of May at NBI. 

As usual we will go to the [http://www.beerfestival.dk/ Beer Festival] afterwards.


== Friday the 11th of May 2012 at the NBI ==
We are hosting the next MiG Day at NBI, Auditorium A, and it will take place at the 11th of May. 
We've invited a number of speakers to tell about the latest developments in relation to MiG as well as the ongoing and future projects.

We are not allowed to drink or eat in the auditorium so coffee and lunch will be served elsewhere. Meet us at Brian's office (NBI building C, third floor) 10-15 minutes to 10 if you want to grab a quick coffee before the meeting or join us at 10.00 in auditorium A otherwise.

Those interested will visit the Beer Festival afterwards.

=== Topics ===

Meeting Topics:
 # 9.45-10.00 Optional coffee
 # 10.00 Welcome in Auditorium A
 # 10.15 Morning session of talks
 # 11.45 Lunch
 # 12.15 Afternoon session of talks
 # 13.30 Round up and planning for the future
 # 14.00 Optional ESS Talk at HCØ: Data analysis in real time?
 # ??.?? Optional participation in the Beer Festival 


Confirmed Talks:
 * Short Status on Current and Future MiG Projects (Brian Vinter)
 * MiG Home SFTP/SSHFS Access (Jonas Bardino)
 * A DropBox/SpiderOak/...-like Synchronized Storage Service for MiG (Brian Vinter)
 * Virtual Machines with VNC Access (Simon A. F. Lund)
 * PyCSP on MiG (Rune M. Friborg)
 * CphVB Service in MiG (Kenneth Skovhede)
 * VGrid Collaboration Tools (Jonas Bardino)

_Proposed Talks:_
 * The MiG user interface library
 * ...


=== Sign up ===
Please send a mail to Jonas (ContactUs) if you plan to attend, so that we can make proper preparations in terms of a suitable meeting room and refreshments.

_Further details will be announced later._


= Previous MiG working Days =

== Friday the 7th of May 2010 at the E-Science Center / DIKU ==

We have reserved the DIKU meeting room (Mødelokale A+B) from 10 o'clock and ordered some lunch for participants. Just meet us 5 minutes early next to Brian's office if in doubt :-)


=== Topics ===

Meeting Topics (at 10):
 # Welcome and coffee
 # Short presentation of each participant and active projects
 # Presentations of active or related projects (see below)
 # Google Summer of Code projects next year?
 # Other topics that may come up
 # Planning for the future

Presentations:
 * Short status on current and future MiG projects (Brian Vinter)
 * Distributed File System for failover MiG servers (Jan Wiberg)
 * ESS Portal using VGrid (Jost Berthold)
 * Grid.dk activities and plans (Benjamin Sedoc)
 * Software repository and runtime envs with Zero Install (Jonas Bardino)
 * Remote Swap (Martin Rehr)
 * Sandboxed User scheduling with PyPy (Søren Laursen)
 * VGrid SCMs with Mercurial (Jonas Bardino)


Working groups (e.g. at 14)
 * Transparent Remote On-demand File Access integration
 * Document VGrids including nesting and access
 * Integrate other finished subprojects
 * Other topics?
 * Release new version of the code on Google Code Project


== Friday the 6th of March 2009 at the E-Science Center / DIKU ==

=== Topics ===

Meeting Topics:
 * Welcome and coffee
 * Short presentation of each participant and active projects
 * Tasks for the day
 * Planning for the future
 * Future of the Full MiG model
 * Partial LGPL licensing (user side apps/libs may be better to LGPL)
 * Other topics that may come up

Working groups (e.g. at 11)
 * GPL license all the code as previously decided
 * Document the process of running your own MiG server
 * Integrate finished subprojects
 * Tidy all code (i.e. [http://pypi.python.org/pypi/PythonTidy PythonTidy])
 * Release the code on Google Code Project